# APL

- can track fibrinogen bc APL cells secrete proteases, not just a side effect
- consider gemtuzumab in low risk if ATO contraindicated (QTc prolongation)
    - gemtuzumab targets CD33
- consider gemtuzumab in high risk always, particularly if ATO contraindicated

Re ATO and TdP - very low actual incidence, associated w QTc prolongation w electrolyte abnl
[link to section on TdP in ATO in a book on TdP](https://www.google.com/books/edition/Torsades_de_Pointes/V48mEAAAQBAJ?hl=en&gbpv=1&dq=ato%20tdp&pg=PA286&printsec=frontcover).
Most guidelines (including in the link) hold ATO when QTc >500ms, resume when <460ms or so.

## Email to Sanjay and Stephen

Sent 2022-07-08.

When I've discussed TdP risk w cardiologists, they've emphasized that TdP does not typically develop rapidly, but is preceded by bradycardia, and tachycardia is protective. Most of our pts are tachycardic, particularly with concomitant anemia.

I found a nice recent book on TdP, has a section on ATO, mentions that actual incidence is low, and usually in the context of electrolyte abnormalities. Our folks often do have electrolyte abnormalities, particularly if they have renal failure.

Anyway, this is a long way to ask: are there situations where the benefit of ATO in the short term outweigh the risk of TdP at mildly/modestly elevated QTc, e.g. QTc 500-550? I also understand that ATO remains a part of the regimen for quite a while, so may cross into the part of the treatment where the pt is no longer protected by tachycardia, in which case I would worry about TdP at modestly elevated QTc.
