# Come follow me

## 1 Nephi 8-10 - Lehi's vision

### 8
- How did Lehi get to the Tree? Wandering in darkness -> *eleison* -> large and spacious field -> tree -> go forth and partake. No rod here, and angel seems to have disappeared.

- 8:27 "manner of dress was exceedingly fine": more on class differences, attitudes (mocking, shaming)

- 8:37 "did exhort them": despite seeing the vision, Lehi did not think it was fatalistic? Laman & Lemuel redeemable?

- 8: 24 "clinging" fell away, vs. 8:30 "continually holding fast" were able to not heed the great and spacious folks. Maybe a difference between the dead word and the living word? Sense of desperation in "cling" vs. self-sufficiency in "holding fast." Also 8:24 came forth and partook, vs. 8:30 "fell down" and partook (cf. Lehi above and *eleison* prior to deliverance).

- overall: major contrasts of humility and pride - *eleison* and "fell down and partook" vs. "exceedingly fine dress," also perhaps superficial vs. deeper use of the "rod" (clinging vs. holding fast) - in what ways may these be one concept? Authenticity and phenomenological approach to faith rather than (ill)preconceived notions of what faith *should* be?

### 9
- 9:5 wise purpose "which purpose I know not"
- 9:6 "all" used repeatedly

### 10
- 10:17 "see, and hear, and know"
    - seems progressive: intellectual understanding/exposure to the idea, then hear as in "hearken", then sure knowledge from experience.
    - "hear" etymology, fun tidbit: 'Old English also had the excellent adjective hiersum "ready to hear, obedient," literally "hear-some" with suffix from handsome, etc.' https://www.etymonline.com/word/hear

Sun 19 Jan 2020 10:03:22 AM CST
